I was just a year old when she was
brought here to Japan to Kyoto
University's Primate Research Institute
the PRI this is one of the world's most
important centers of acree search it's
run by scientists professor Tetsu Rome
at Sue's our he even speaks chimp this
means hello Matt Sue's our has been
close to ice since she arrived here it
was he who named her I which is Japanese
for love
since when she was one-year-old
I interacted with her every day basis
and I became a friend up high I really
lik organized the right way to study the
chimpanzees first you have to become a
friend of chimpanzee I spends most of
her time in a vast playpen that Matsu
Zama has carefully designed to make her
feel at home I decided to make small
world of African forest good for the
chimpanzees I built 15 meters high
climbing frames and prompted many many
trees three-quarters of a day is spent
in the trees that is their natural way
of life you should not keep these
creatures on the ground
this playpen is attached via tunnels to
the pr i--'s research building where i
comes for her lessons i is tempted in
here
with a piece of fruit but Matt sues our
stresses that I enters her classroom
willingly here using a touchscreen
computer I has learnt a human language
of English alphabet letters and japanese
kanji characters chimps are very special
subjects to work with because you have
no problem you know asking them
questions in the in the context of a
computerised task you can ask them about
you know how they perceive the world how
they perceive each other I is most
extraordinary achievement is her grasp
of numbers she can count to nine
you